 

iv crunnus 1uraonucr101v.

New Testaments, J osephus, Eutropius, Valerius
Maximus, Justin, Dionysius Eusebius OrosiuS,
and writers of less authority. In their progress
they frequently enter into an abridgement ol our'
own history, the greater portion os which is ex-
tracted from the romanoe ol Geoffrey of Mon-
mouth, Beda, NenniuS, Malmesbury, Marianus
Scotus, and other writers whose works are yet
extant. In such cases, it is only when the chro-
nieler arrives at the narrative of those trans-
actions which occurred at the period when he
wrote, that he oeases to bea mere compiler, and
assumes the characteres an original historian.
Part of this preliminary matter it is proposed to
retrench. On this point, the promoters os the
present undertaking are well aware that a differ-
ence os opinion existe, and that there are certain
persons who think that, il our chronieles are to
be reprinted at all, they ought to be reprinted
without any retrenchment. But it is believed
that the number of such persons is small, and
that the inexpediency of the principle for which
they contend will become more obvious the more
narrowly it is examined. At the remote aera

when such works were composed, knowledge
was not communicated, as now, by the art of
printing3 books existing in manuscript only were
consequently scarce3 and an author acted consi-
derately, if not judiciously, in thus gleaning from

various quartem, probably with much trouble, an
introductory sketch of general history. But a
more advanced state of literature not only ob·
viates the necessity os retaining such extraneous
matter, but absolutely demands its removal asa
positive incumbrance ; there being no doubt that
the publication of a complete body of genuine
materials for the History ol England‘must sor

 

